As I mentioned, we'll build an entire application in this module. We'll build this shop application, a shop
where you can both offer your own products as well as shop for products,
add them to a cart and then place an order.
Now for that, we'll need a couple of screens and one very important screen which we'll obviously have
in this application where I also then want to have a side drawer but more on that in a second, one important
screen which we'll definitely need is a screen that shows all our products of this shop and there,
I want to have a little grid where we can have our products in there, like this, obviously we'll probably
have real boxes and not ugly ones like this one.
So we want to have that shop overview screen here in the application, where we can simply see a list
of the products that exists.
I also want to add a feature where we can favorite products with a little heart icon which we can tap
and if we tap it, it gets filled
and then here at the top, I also want to have a filter, some icon which allows me to set a filter to only
show favorite or all products.
So this little feature here, so that we can filter our products and save them as favorites,
that's also something I want to add to this shop and other than that of course, if we tap on a product
item here, we should be taken to a brand new screen and on that screen here, where we'll have a back button,
on that screen
I want to show the image here,
probably the title of the product
and then of course, the description text and so on.
So simply the detail page of every product we have in the shop.
Now one other thing we'll have in the shop is of course a shopping cart. So up here,
I want to have that cart
icon here, another option in my menu up there
and when we press that cart icon here,
of course I want to go to a new page where I see all cart items.
Now of course, for that we need to be able to add items to the cart and adding items to the cart should
also be possible, either from inside the detail page here where we have an Add To Cart button or directly
here, we can decide how we want to do that
but of course I want to be able to add items to the cart and when they are in the cart, we can view them
here on the cart screen. On the cart screen,
we should have some summary at the top where we see the total amount here, total amount of items we have
in the cart,
so the sum of the values and then below that, probably a list of the individual items where we have the
title and then the quantity, something like this.
So this is the cart and obviously on that cart, we should also have some checkout button somewhere which
allows us to place an order for the items in the cart
and obviously, the cart items here should be deletable and so on
so we should be able to clear them from the cart if we want to.
So a shopping cart will be another important part of our shop,
other than that, of course we want to have orders and orders can be reached here through our side drawer,
that side drawer should allow us to go to the shop, to the orders screen and also to our products which we
can manage,
so our own products which we want to sell. Now the shop, that's exactly this page up there.
The orders, that will be a brand new screen here where we also have that drawer to
go back here to these drawer options and then in there, simply a list of the items or of the orders
we placed, where each order has of course a total sum and which we probably then can expand to see all
the items that were part of that order,
something like this.
So if we place an order here with the shopping cart, then in the end, that ends up down there in the orders
overview,
so that's also something I want to add. Now
last but not least, for managing the product here,
we'll have another screen in this application of course and that screen we also should be able to reach
that drawer, to go back and so on
and then here in manage products, for one of course, we see all the products we have
here with the images and then the title and so on
and then we have two important options.
One option is to edit these products,
so these are the products we are offering,
so our products and we can edit them or we can delete them. Deleting should probably present a prompt,
are you sure? So that we have a chance of avoiding misclicks
but other than that, pressing delete simply gets rid of the product. Edit however, just like
a plus button which I want to have here in my top appBar, that should take us to a new screen where
we can edit a product.
So in there, we should be able to create a brand new product where we enter a title, a description and so
on,
so that should all be possible there in the end.
Here we can then save this to go back and add the product both to this list here but also of course, to
the overall shop where it's then presented and where people can buy it.
This is the rough overview of the application we'll build.
It's a complete application as you can tell with a couple of screens and with complex interactions between
these screens. We're managing products for example in this screen down there,
then we also need products there
but we also need product information here in the orders screen,
we need it here in the detail screen and we also need product information on the cart screen and then
we have the cart data which we of course manage here.
We have the order data which we manage down there in the order screen and all these complex connections,
that is something we'll have to manage and why we use a different state management system in this module
because if we would manage all these different kinds of data in the main.dart file and in our main widget
there, then we would end up with a very complex main widget which we would rebuild all the time no matter
what changed
and that's simply not that great.
So therefore, we'll have a different state management system
and besides that and that's also really a core part of this section, we'll of course build a complete
application and we'll learn about some new widgets in there which we haven't used before.
So let's dive right in then.